feat: Konnect Dev Portal RBAC documentation (#5932)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/dev-portal/access-and-approval/manage-teams.md

* **API Viewer:** Provides developers with read access to the documentation associated with an API product.
* **API Consumer:** Includes API Viewer permissions as well as allows developers to register applications to consume versions of an API product.

You can use the API and UI to create a team, assign a role to the team, and finally, add developers to the team.

In this guide, you will set up two developer teams and then enable Portal RBAC using a hypothetical scenario.

## Prerequisites
* Two [test developer accounts registered](/konnect/dev-portal/dev-reg/). If you currently have developers in {{site.konnect_short_name}}, you must configure developer teams before enabling Portal RBAC (which is disabled by default). If you enable Portal RBAC before configuring teams for your developers, it will prevent *all* developers from seeing any API products in your Dev Portal. We recommend setting up your teams and permissions before enabling RBAC which will allow for a seamless transition; developers see what they're supposed to, instead of nothing at all.
* A [runtime configured](/konnect/getting-started/configure-runtime)

> * A [personal access token](/konnect/getting-started/import/#generate-a-personal-access-token) for authorization

Reviewer: We should note that PAT is only required if you plan on doing this tutorial with the API.  UI will not require PAT.

These instructions only use the required fields in the following API specs:
* [Create a service](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/3c38bff8-3b7b-4323-8e2e-690d35ef97e0/16adcd15-493a-49b2-ad53-8c73891e29bf#/Services/create-service)
* [Create an API product](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/d420333f-01b0-464e-a87a-97acc92c2026/941af975-8cfa-40f7-afea-e82d248489a0#/API%20Products/create-api-product)
* [Create an API product version](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/d420333f-01b0-464e-a87a-97acc92c2026/941af975-8cfa-40f7-afea-e82d248489a0#/API%20Product%20Version%20Specification/create-api-product-version-spec)

If you want to use additional fields, see the API spec documentation.

1. Create the `classic_pizzas` service:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/{runtime-group-id}/core-entities/services \
  --data "name": "classic_pizzas" \
  --data "host": "http://mockbin.org" \
  --data "path": "/classic_pizzas" 
```
1. Create the `Pizza Ordering` API product:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/api-products \
  --data "name": "Pizza Ordering" \
  --data "description": "API product for pizza ordering" 
```

>   Save the `portal-id` value from the output. This will be used later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

I tested this 

```
{
  "labels": {},
  "id": "3f8c1951-a400-497e-a9ff-8bb702cf0aec",
  "name": "Pizza ordering",
  "description": "API product for pizza ordering",
  "portal_ids": [],
  "created_at": "2023-08-22T20:01:26.736Z",
  "updated_at": "2023-08-22T20:01:26.736Z"
}
```
Portal-id seems to return an empty array, so there may be nothing to save here.

> 1. Create the `v1` version for the `Pizza Ordering` API product and publish it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Using the`api-product-id` UUID of the newly created API product, create a `v1` version for the `Pizza Ordering` API product and publish it:
```

```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/api-products/{api-product-id}/product-versions \
  --data "id": "GATEWAY_SERVICE_ID" \
  --data "name": "v1" \

>   --data "gateway_service": {
>       "runtime_group_id": "RUNTIME_GROUP_ID"
>     } \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Tested this and you don't need this part. 

My request looked like this:
```
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --header 'accept: application/json' \
  --data '{"name":"v1","publish_status":"published"}'
```

1. Click **Teams** in the sidebar and then click **Add team**.
1. Enter the following:
    * **Team name:** Authorized Delivery Partners
    * **Description:** Team of vetted delivery partners that can view and consume APIs
1. On the **Developers** tab of your new team, click **Add developer** and select a developer to add to the team.
1. On the **Products** tab of your new team, click **Add Role**.
1. Select the **Pizza Ordering** product from the dropdown menu and select **API Consumer** and **API Viewer** from the **Add roles** dropdown menu.
1. Click **Teams** in the sidebar and click **New Team** again and enter the following:
    * **Team name:** Prospective Partners
    * **Description:** Team of unvetted partners that can only view APIs
1. On the **Developers** tab of your new team, click **Add developer** and select a developer to add to the team.
1. On the **Products** tab of your new team, click **Add Role**.
1. Select the **Pizza Ordering** product from the dropdown menu and select **API Viewer** from the **Add roles** dropdown menu. 
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab API %}
{:.note}
> **Note:** Make sure to include headers with the personal access token in your requests.

> These instructions only use the required fields in the following API specs:
> * [Create developer team](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/2dad627f-7269-40db-ab14-01264379cec7/0ecb66fc-0049-414a-a1f9-f29e8a02c696#/Teams/create-portal-team)
> * [Assign roles to a team](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/2dad627f-7269-40db-ab14-01264379cec7/0ecb66fc-0049-414a-a1f9-f29e8a02c696#/Team%20Roles/portal-teams-assign-role)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These instructions used the following API endpoints, you can learn more about them in the API documentation:
* [Create team](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/2dad627f-7269-40db-ab14-01264379cec7/0ecb66fc-0049-414a-a1f9-f29e8a02c696#/Teams/create-portal-team)
* [Assign roles to a team](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/2dad627f-7269-40db-ab14-01264379cec7/0ecb66fc-0049-414a-a1f9-f29e8a02c696#/Team%20Roles/portal-teams-assign-role)
```

> If you want to use additional fields, see the API spec documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

1. Create the `Authorized Delivery Partners` team:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/{portal-id}/teams \
  --data "name": "Authorized Delivery Partners" \
  --data "description": "Team of vetted delivery partners that can view and consume APIs"
```

>   The `portal-id` will be the value from the output of the request you used earlier to create the Pizza Delivery API product.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The `portal-id` will be the value from the output of the request you used earlier to create the Pizza Delivery API product.
```

I can't find this portal-id output from any of the steps listed here. When you create the portal you get a portal ID, It's available in konnect manager and you can use it for future requests, but so far nothing has output for me, at least not automatically.

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab API %}
The {{site.konnect_short_name}} API uses [Personal Access Token (PAT)](/konnect/api/#authentication) authentication. You can obtain your PAT from the [personal access token page](https://cloud.konghq.com/global/account/tokens). The PAT must be passed in the `Authorization` header of all requests.

1. Create the `Authorized Delivery Partners` team:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/{portal-id}/teams \
  --data "name": "Authorized Delivery Partners" \
  --data "description": "Team of vetted delivery partners that can view and consume APIs"
```
  The `portal-id` will be the value from the output of the request you used earlier to create the Pizza Delivery API product.
1. Create the `Prospective Partners` team:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/{portal-id}/teams \
  --data "name": "Prospective Partners" \
  --data "description": "Team of unvetted partners that can only view APIs"
```

> 1. Optional: You can verify that the teams have been created by [making a GET request to the teams endpoint](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/2dad627f-7269-40db-ab14-01264379cec7/0ecb66fc-0049-414a-a1f9-f29e8a02c696#/Teams/get-portal-team). 

Author: ```suggestion
```
Add responses instead

1. Assign the `API Consumer` role to the `Authorized Delivery Partners` created in the previous section for your pizza ordering API product:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/{portal-id}/teams/{team-id}/assigned-roles \
  --data "role_name": "API Consumer" \
  --data "entity_id": "SERVICE_ID" \
  --data "entity_type_name": "Services"
```
1. Now assign the `API Viewer` role to the `Prospective Partners` team for the same pizza ordering API product:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/{portal-id}/teams/{team-id}/assigned-roles \
  --data "role_name": "API Viewer" \
  --data "entity_id": "SERVICE_ID" \
  --data "entity_type_name": "Services" \
  --data "entity_region": "us"
```

> You now have added your test developer accounts to two teams with different access permissions for your Dev Portal. These developers won't be able to access anything in Dev Portal yet, though, because we need to enable Portal RBAC next.

Author: Add developers to the teams.

Author: Maybe do GET for developers to get their IDs

---
title: Manage Dev Portal Teams
content_type: how-to
---

A common scenario for a Dev Portal is to restrict developers' ability to view or request access to specific services based on their permissions. {{site.konnect_short_name}} Portal enables administrators to define Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) for teams of developers through the Konnect UI and API.

Portal RBAC supports two different roles for services that can be applied to a team of developers:

* **API Viewer:** Provides developers with read access to the documentation associated with a service.
* **API Consumer:** Includes API Viewer permissions as well as allows developers to register applications to consume versions of a service.

You can use the API and UI to create a team, assign a role to the team, and finally, add developers to the team.

In this guide, you will set up two developer teams and then enable Portal RBAC using a hypothetical scenario.

## Prerequisites
* Two [test developer accounts registered](/konnect/dev-portal/dev-reg/)
* A [runtime configured](/konnect/getting-started/configure-runtime)

## Configure developer teams 

> In this scenario, you are a product manager at a pizza company who is in charge of their online app. You're asked to create a Dev Portal that allows delivery companies to use your APIs to deliver the company's pizzas. However, you want to make sure only trusted delivery partners can build apps using your APIs and deliver your pizzas. 

Author: ❗ For reviewers: Does this scenario make sense? Is there anything I should change?

Reviewer 2: It does with some tweaks I made as suggestions

* **Delivery Partners:** This developer team will be able to view and consume your APIs so they can use them in their own apps to deliver your pizzas.
* **New Partners:** This developer team will contain delivery groups that the company is still in the process of vetting, so you don't want to allow them to consume your APIs in their apps yet. You give this group view-only privileges so they can see what your API specs look like. 

{:.important}
> **Important:** If you currently have developers in {{site.konnect_short_name}}, you must configure developer teams before enabling Portal RBAC (which is disabled by default). If you enable Portal RBAC before configuring teams for your developers, it will prevent *all* developers from seeing any services in your Dev Portal. We recommend setting up your teams and permissions before enabling RBAC which will allow for a seamless transition; developers see what they're supposed to, instead of nothing at all.

### Create an API product

In this scenario, before you can configure developer teams, you must have an API product created. This API product will be for your classic pizzas APIs.

{% navtabs %}
{% navtab Konnect UI %}

> In {% konnect_icon runtimes %} [**Runtime Manager**](https://cloud.konghq.com/us/runtime-manager), select the **Default** runtime group and follow these steps:

Author: ```suggestion
In {% konnect_icon runtimes %} [**Runtime Manager**](https://cloud.konghq.com/us/runtime-manager), select a runtime group and follow these steps:
```

1. Select **Gateway Services** from the side navigation bar, then **New Gateway Service**.

1. From the **Add a Gateway Service** dialog, enter the following to create a new service:
    * **Name:** classic_pizzas
    * **Upstream URL:** `http://mockbin.org`
    * Use the defaults for the remaining fields.
1. Click **Save**. 
1. To create an API product for your service, navigate to **API Products** in the sidebar, click **Add API Product** and enter `Classic Pizzas` in the **Product Name** field.
1. Click **Publish to portal** from the **Actions** dropdown menu. This will allow developers to see your API product once you assign them to a team.
1. Click **New Version** from the **Actions** dropdown menu and enter `v1` in the **Version Name** field and then click **Create**.
1. Click the **v1** version and then click **Link** to add a service.

> 1. Select **default** from the **Select Runtime Group** dropdown menu, select **classic_pizzas** from the **Gateway Service** dropdown menu, and then click **Save**.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Select a runtime from the **Select Runtime Group** dropdown menu, select **classic_pizzas** from the **Gateway Service** dropdown menu, and then click **Save**.
```

1. Click the **Edit** icon next to the status of your product version and select **Published** from the **Edit version status** dialog and then click **Save**.

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab API %}
{:.note}
> **Note:** Make sure you replace the placeholders in the following API requests with information specific to your environment. 

1. Create the service?
1. Create the `Classic Pizzas` API product:
```bash

> curl --request POST \

Reviewer 2: The indention is off, it should be: 

```
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/api-products \
  --data '{
    "id": "GATEWAY_SERVICE_ID",
    "name": "Classic Pizzas",
    "description": "API product for classic pizzas",
    "portal_ids": "PORTAL_ID",
    "created_at": "2023-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
    "updated_at": "2023-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
    "labels": {
      "env": "test"
    }
  }'
 ```

  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/api-products \
  -- data '{
    "id": "GATEWAY_SERVICE_ID",
    "name": "Classic Pizzas",
    "description": "API product for classic pizzas",
    "portal_ids": "PORTAL_ID",
    "created_at": "2023-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
    "updated_at": "2023-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
    "labels": {
        "env": "test"
        }
    }'
```
1. Create the `v1` version for the `Classic Pizzas` API product and publish it:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/api-products/<api-product-id>/product-versions \
  -- data '{
    "id": "GATEWAY_SERVICE_ID",
    "name": "v1",
    "gateway_service": {

>         "runtime_group_id": "RUNTIME_GROUP_ID",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        "runtime_group_id": "RUNTIME_GROUP_ID"
```

---
title: Manage Dev Portal Teams
content_type: how-to
---

A common scenario for a Dev Portal is to restrict developers' ability to view or request access to specific services based on their permissions.

> {{site.konnect_short_name}} Portal enables administrators with the ability to define Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) for teams of developers through the Konnect API.

Reviewer: Konnect UI & API.

Portal RBAC supports two different roles for Services that can be applied to a Team of developers:

* API Viewer: provides read access to the documentation associated with a Service.

> * API Consumer: can register applications to consume versions of a Service.

Reviewer: API Consumer _includes_ API Viewer permissions as well.

> You can use the API to create a team, assign a role to the team, and finally, add developers to the team.

Reviewer: API & UI

You've decided to create two groups of developers with different access levels to your APIs: 
* Delivery Partners: This developer team will be able to view and consume your APIs so they can use them in their own apps to deliver your pizzas.
* New Partners: This developer team will contain delivery groups that the company is still in the process of vetting and you don't want to allow them to consume your APIs in their apps yet. You give this group view-only privileges so they can see what your API specs look like. 

{:.important}
> **Important:** If you currently have developers in your {{site.konnect_short_name}}, you must configure developer teams before enabling Portal RBAC (which is disabled by default). If you enable Portal RBAC before configuring teams for your developers, it will prevent all developers from seeing any services in your Dev Portal. We recommend setting up your teams and permissions before enabling RBAC which will allow for a seamless transition: developers see what they're supposed to, instead of nothing at all.

### Create an API Product

{% navtabs %}
{% navtab Konnect UI %}

> In {% konnect_icon runtimes %} [**Runtime Manager**](https://cloud.konghq.com/us/runtime-manager), select the **Default** runtime group and follow these steps:

Reviewer: Is there a reason you chose `Default` runtime group here? In general, there's no need to specify a particular runtime group.

1. Select **Gateway Services** from the side navigation bar, then **New Gateway Service**.

1. From the **Add a Gateway Service** dialog, enter the following to create a new service:
    * **Name:** classic_pizzas
    * **Upstream URL:** `http://mockbin.org`
    * Use the defaults for the remaining fields.
1. Click **Save**. 

> 1. To create an API product for your service, navigate to **API Products** in the sidebar, click **Add API Product** and enter `Classic Pizzas` in the **Product Name** field.

Reviewer: API Product needs to be published to the portal

1. Click **New Version** from the Actions dropdown menu and enter `v1` in the **Version Name** field and then click **Create**.

> 1. Click the **v1** version and then click **Link** to add a service.

Reviewer: Need to publish the version to the portal

1. Select **default** from the **Select Runtime Group** dropdown menu, select **classic_pizzas** from the **Gateway Service** dropdown menu, and then click **Save**.

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab API %}

> 1. Create the service?

Reviewer: I think this needs to be flushed out.

Author: ❗ For reviewers: I couldn't find any Konnect API specs for this, should I just use the gateway API?

Reviewer 2: That link is the konnect API spec

Reviewer 3: @cloudjumpercat , you'll want the Portal RBAC spec https://developer.konghq.com/spec/2dad627f-7269-40db-ab14-01264379cec7/0ecb66fc-0049-414a-a1f9-f29e8a02c696#/Services/create-service

1. Create the `Classic Pizzas` API product:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/api-products \
  -- data '{
    "id": "e7a4f6c0-5777-4a37-bcb9-2d37d3b362ee",
    "name": "Classic Pizzas",
    "description": "API product for classic pizzas",

>     "portal_ids": [],

Reviewer: We should have them publish this API product to the portal in this step.  portal_ids needs the `<portal_id>` added to the array.

Author: > We should have them publish this API product to the portal in this step.

@rosskukulinski I couldn't find that mentioned in the API spec, could you write out an example that I can copy + paste in here?

Reviewer: An API Product is published to portal(s) based on whether there are any valid portal IDs in `portal_ids`

<img width="207" alt="Screenshot 2023-08-11 at 2 48 23 PM" src="https://github.com/Kong/docs.konghq.com/assets/2746479/4ca8591b-42b4-4066-85ba-c4adcf14aba4">

    "created_at": "2023-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
    "updated_at": "2023-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
    "labels": {
        "env": "test"
        }
    }'
```
1. Create the `v1` version for the `Classic Pizzas` API product:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/api-products/<api-product-id>/product-versions \
  -- data '{
    "id": "9f5061ce-78f6-4452-9108-ad7c02821fd5",
    "name": "v1",
    "gateway_service": {

>         "runtime_group_id": "e4d9ebb1-26b4-426a-b00e-cb67044f3baf",

Reviewer: We need to note there that the `runtime group id` and `id` are specific to _their_ runtime group & gatewat service.

        "id": "09b4786a-3e48-4631-8f6b-62d1d8e1a7f3"
        },

>     "publish_status": "unpublished",

Reviewer: this should be "published" so that'll be visible in the portal.

    "deprecated": false,
    "created_at": "2023-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",

>     "updated_at": "2023-01-01T00:00:00.000Z"

Reviewer: No need to send `dreprecated`, `created_at`, or `updated_at` fields.  Also don't send `id` either

{% navtabs %}
{% navtab Konnect UI %}
1. From the navigation menu, open {% konnect_icon dev-portal %} **Dev Portal**.
1. Click **Teams** in the sidebar and then click **Add team**.
1. Enter the following:
    * **Team name:** Delivery Partners
    * **Description:** Team of vetted delivery partners that can view and consume APIs
1. On the **Developers** tab of your new team, click **Add developer** and select a developer to add to the team.
1. On the **Products** tab of your new team, click **Add Role**.
1. Select the **Classic Pizzas** product from the dropdown menu and select **API Consumer** and **API Viewer** from the **Add roles** dropdown menu.
1. Click **Teams** in the sidebar and click **New Team** again and enter the following:
    * **Team name:** New Partners
    * **Description:** Team of unvetted partners that can only view APIs
1. On the **Developers** tab of your new team, click **Add developer** and select a developer to add to the team.
1. On the **Products** tab of your new team, click **Add Role**.
1. Select the **Classic Pizzas** product from the dropdown menu and select **API Viewer** from the **Add roles** dropdown menu. 

> 1. Enable auto approval?

Reviewer: I think we can leave auto-approval out of this doc.

  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{
    "name": "New Partners",
    "description": "Team of unvetted partners that can only view APIs"
  }'
```
1. You can verify that the teams have been created by making a GET request to the teams endpoint.
```bash
curl --request GET \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/<portal-id>/teams \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>'
```
1. Now you can assign roles to your teams. To do so, you must make a `POST` request to the team roles endpoint. The following example shows how to assign the `API Viewer` and `API Consumer` roles to the `Delivery Partners` created in the previous section for your classic pizza API product with a service ID of `5b349722-dfb4-4e78-937c-41526164fa1a`:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/<portal-id>/teams/<team-id>/assigned-roles \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{
  "role_name": "API Viewer, API Consumer",
  "entity_id": "5b349722-dfb4-4e78-937c-41526164fa1a",
  "entity_type_name": "Services",

>   "entity_region": "us"

Reviewer: entity region can be removed now.

}'
```
1. Now assign the `API Viewer` role to the `New Partners` team for the same classic pizzas API product with a service ID of `5b349722-dfb4-4e78-937c-41526164fa1a`:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/<portal-id>/teams/<team-id>/assigned-roles \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{
  "role_name": "API Viewer",
  "entity_id": "5b349722-dfb4-4e78-937c-41526164fa1a",
  "entity_type_name": "Services",

>   "entity_region": "us"

Reviewer: entity region can be removed

}'
```

> 1. Additionally, you've decided that since the "Delivery Partner" developers have already been vetted, it would speed up the process if you enabled auto approval for their apps. You can enable this by making the following request:

Reviewer: I would suggest skipping this

1. Create the `classic_pizzas` service:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/<runtime-group-id>/core-entities/services \
  -- data '{
    "name": "classic_pizzas",
    "retries": 5,
    "protocol": "http",
    "host": "example.com",
    "port": 80,
    "path": "/classic_pizzas",
    "connect_timeout": 6000,
    "write_timeout": 6000,
    "read_timeout": 6000,
    "tags": [
      "user-level"
    ],
    "client_certificate": {
      "id": "CERTIFICATE_ID"
    },
    "tls_verify": true,
    "tls_verify_depth": null,
    "ca_certificates": [
      "CA_CERTIFICATE_ID"
    ],
    "enabled": true
  }'
```
1. Create the `Classic Pizzas` API product:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/api-products \
  --data '{
    "id": "GATEWAY_SERVICE_ID",
    "name": "Classic Pizzas",
    "description": "API product for classic pizzas",
    "portal_ids": "PORTAL_ID",
    "labels": {
        "env": "test"
    }
  }'
```
1. Create the `v1` version for the `Classic Pizzas` API product and publish it:
```bash
curl --request POST \

>   --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/api-products/<api-product-id>/product-versions \

Author: @Guaris Maybe? The API spec says "apiProductId, string($uuid), (path)". But I think this is still a random string of numbers and letters that Konnect creates for each API product.

>   --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/api-products/<api-product-id>/product-versions \

Reviewer 2: then it's probably the UUID, and maybe we can say that it's that when we explain the request.

  --data '{
    "id": "GATEWAY_SERVICE_ID",
    "name": "v1",
    "gateway_service": {

>         "runtime_group_id": "RUNTIME_GROUP_ID"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        "runtime_group_id": "RUNTIME_GROUP_ID"
```

If this is needed you should say where they get it. I think this is from the output of the first request where you made the classic_pizzas service. 

According to the API docs the request should look like this

```
{
  "name": "v1",
  "publish_status": "unpublished",
  "deprecated": false,
  "gateway_service": {
    "runtime_group_id": "e4d9ebb1-26b4-426a-b00e-cb67044f3baf",
    "id": "09b4786a-3e48-4631-8f6b-62d1d8e1a7f3"
  }
}
```
Which has runtime_group_id and  id nested within gateway_service. I would copy that.

Author: > If this is needed you should say where they get it. I think this is from the output of the first request where you made the classic_pizzas service.

@Guaris It's used in the URL of the first request and from reading the specs, I don't think it's listed in the output, so they'd need to know this right away. Since this is just a tutorial and we want it to be opinionated, can I just recommend using "default" and do we need to point to a request that they can use to find the runtime group ID? I looked in the spec for one and couldn't find it.

Reviewer 2: I think it's fine to just explain that you use the same `runtime-group-id` that you used in the first request.

{% navtab Konnect UI %}
1. From the navigation menu, open {% konnect_icon dev-portal %} **Dev Portal**.
1. Click **Teams** in the sidebar and then click **Add team**.
1. Enter the following:
    * **Team name:** Delivery Partners
    * **Description:** Team of vetted delivery partners that can view and consume APIs
1. On the **Developers** tab of your new team, click **Add developer** and select a developer to add to the team.
1. On the **Products** tab of your new team, click **Add Role**.
1. Select the **Classic Pizzas** product from the dropdown menu and select **API Consumer** and **API Viewer** from the **Add roles** dropdown menu.
1. Click **Teams** in the sidebar and click **New Team** again and enter the following:
    * **Team name:** New Partners
    * **Description:** Team of unvetted partners that can only view APIs
1. On the **Developers** tab of your new team, click **Add developer** and select a developer to add to the team.
1. On the **Products** tab of your new team, click **Add Role**.
1. Select the **Classic Pizzas** product from the dropdown menu and select **API Viewer** from the **Add roles** dropdown menu. 
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab API %}
{:.note}

> > **Note:** Make sure you replace the placeholders in the following API requests with information specific to your environment. 

Reviewer 2: I think we could remove the note and instead have a sentence that says like 
"this variable was returned in this part of the guide"
I also think we should link to the API specs somewhere here in case they need more info.

1. Create the `Delivery Partners` team:
```bash
curl --request POST \

>   --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/<portal-id>/teams \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/<portal-id>/teams \
```

You should mention where they get the portal id. I think it comes as the output when you create the API product: 

https://developer.konghq.com/spec/d420333f-01b0-464e-a87a-97acc92c2026/941af975-8cfa-40f7-afea-e82d248489a0#/API%20Products/create-api-product

>   --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>' \
>   --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
```

Headers weren't included in the other requests, I think we should either include them in every request or not in any of them. It would be okay to talk about authorization in a note at the start of the API instructions and explicitly mention that you won't be including them but that they should be included in the header of every request.

  --data '{
    "name": "Delivery Partners",
    "description": "Team of vetted delivery partners that can view and consume APIs"
  }'
```
1. Create the `New Partners` team:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/<portal-id>/teams \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{
    "name": "New Partners",
    "description": "Team of unvetted partners that can only view APIs"
  }'
```

> 1. You can verify that the teams have been created by making a GET request to the teams endpoint:

Reviewer 2: This step would be more helpful if you included the response and the relevant parts of the response that verify if a team was created.

Reviewer 2: You can remove this step though and link out to the API spec endpoint.

```bash
curl --request GET \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/<portal-id>/teams \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>'
```
1. Now you can assign roles to your teams. To do so, you must make a `POST` request to the team roles endpoint. The following example shows how to assign the `API Viewer` and `API Consumer` roles to the `Delivery Partners` created in the previous section for your classic pizza API product:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/<portal-id>/teams/<team-id>/assigned-roles \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \

>   --data '{

Reviewer 2: I think it might be this: 

`--data '{  "role_name": "API Viewer", "API Consumer",  "entity_id": "18ee2573-dec0-4b83-be99-fa7700bcdc61",  "entity_type_name": "Services",  "entity_region": "us"}'`

looks like region is required. https://developer.konghq.com/spec/2dad627f-7269-40db-ab14-01264379cec7/0ecb66fc-0049-414a-a1f9-f29e8a02c696#/Team%20Roles/portal-teams-assign-role

---
title: Manage Dev Portal Teams
content_type: how-to
---

> A common scenario for a Dev Portal is to restrict developers' ability to view or request access to specific services based on their permissions. {{site.konnect_short_name}} Portal enables administrators to define Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) for teams of developers through the Konnect UI and API.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A common scenario for a Dev Portal is to restrict developers' ability to view or request access to specific services based on their permissions. {{site.konnect_short_name}} Portal enables administrators to define Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) for teams of developers through the Konnect UI and API.
```
```suggestion
A common scenario for a Dev Portal is to restrict developers' ability to view or request access to specific API products based on their permissions. {{site.konnect_short_name}} Portal enables administrators to define Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) for teams of developers through the Konnect UI and API.
```

Reviewer 3: this is feedback from @c3pko  (Ella) that I'm adding here

> Portal RBAC supports two different roles for services that can be applied to a team of developers:
> 
> * **API Viewer:** Provides developers with read access to the documentation associated with a service.
> * **API Consumer:** Includes API Viewer permissions as well as allows developers to register applications to consume versions of a service.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Portal RBAC supports two different roles for API products that can be applied to a team of developers:

* **API Viewer:** Provides developers with read access to the documentation associated with a API product.
* **API Consumer:** Includes API Viewer permissions as well as allows developers to register applications to consume versions of an API product.

```

1. Select **Gateway Services** from the side navigation bar, then **New Gateway Service**.
1. From the **Add a Gateway Service** dialog, enter the following to create a new service:
    * **Name:** `pizza_ordering`
    * **Upstream URL:** `http://mockbin.org`
    * Use the defaults for the remaining fields.
1. Click **Save**. 
1. To create an API product for your service, navigate to **API Products** in the sidebar, click **Add API Product** and enter `Pizza Ordering` in the **Product Name** field.
1. Click **Publish to portal** from the **Actions** dropdown menu. This will allow developers to access the API product once you assign them to a team.
1. Click **New Version** from the **Actions** dropdown menu and enter `v1` in the **Version Name** field and then click **Create**.
1. Click the **v1** version and then click **Link** to add a service.
1. Select a runtime from the **Select Runtime Group** dropdown menu, select `pizza_ordering` from the **Gateway Service** dropdown menu, and then click **Save**.
1. Click the **Edit** icon next to the status of your product version and select **Published** from the **Edit version status** dialog and then click **Save**.

> 1. You need to enable app registration if you want the developer in the Authorized Delivery Partners group to be able to consume your APIs by registering apps. You can use an authentication method of your choice in the [enable or disable application registration](/konnect/dev-portal/applications/enable-app-reg/) documenation.

Author: ```suggestion
1. You need to enable app registration if you want the developer in the Authorized Delivery Partners group to be able to consume your APIs by registering apps. You can use an authentication method of your choice in the [enable or disable application registration](/konnect/dev-portal/applications/enable-app-reg/) documentation.
```

1. Select the **Pizza Ordering** product from the dropdown menu and select **API Viewer** from the **Add roles** dropdown menu. 

You now have added your test developer accounts to two teams with different access permissions for your Dev Portal. These developers won't be able to access anything in Dev Portal yet, though, because we need to enable Portal RBAC next.
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab API %}
The {{site.konnect_short_name}} API uses [Personal Access Token (PAT)](/konnect/api/#authentication) authentication. You can obtain your PAT from the [personal access token page](https://cloud.konghq.com/global/account/tokens). The PAT must be passed in the `Authorization` header of all requests.

1. Create the `Authorized Delivery Partners` team:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/{portal-id}/teams \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --header 'accept: application/json' \
  --data "name": "Authorized Delivery Partners" \
  --data "description": "Team of vetted delivery partners that can view and consume APIs"

> ```

Reviewer 4: this call did not work for me as written now. this did work:

`curl --request POST \
  --url https://us.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/{portal-id}/teams \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{"name": "Authorized Delivery Partners","description": "Team of vetted delivery partners that can view and consume APIs"}'`

1. Select a runtime from the **Select Runtime Group** dropdown menu, select `pizza_ordering` from the **Gateway Service** dropdown menu, and then click **Save**.
1. Click the **Edit** icon next to the status of your product version and select **Published** from the **Edit version status** dialog and then click **Save**.
1. You need to enable app registration if you want the developer in the Authorized Delivery Partners group to be able to consume your APIs by registering apps. You can use an authentication method of your choice in the [enable or disable application registration](/konnect/dev-portal/applications/enable-app-reg/) documentation.

You now have a published API product for your Pizza Ordering API in your Dev Portal.

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab API %} 
{:.note}
The {{site.konnect_short_name}} API uses [Personal Access Token (PAT)](/konnect/api/#authentication) authentication. You can obtain your PAT from the [personal access token page](https://cloud.konghq.com/global/account/tokens). The PAT must be passed in the `Authorization` header of all requests.

1. Create the `pizza_ordering` service:
```bash
curl --request POST \

>   --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/{runtime-group-id}/core-entities/services \

Reviewer 2: This is how it's written in the API spec.

    "id": "06acc4f4-c6d8-4daf-bef6-79866e88ca86",
    "name": "pizza_ordering",
    "path": "/pizza_ordering",
    "port": 80,
    "protocol": "http",
    "read_timeout": 60000,
    "retries": 5,
    "updated_at": 1692885974,
    "write_timeout": 60000
  }
  ```
  Save the `id` value from the output. This is your `GATEWAY-SERVICE-ID` and will be used in another step.
1. Create the `Pizza Ordering` API product:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/api-products \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --header 'accept: application/json' \
  --data '{
  "name": "Pizza Ordering",
  "description": "API product for pizza ordering"
  }'
```
  You should get a `201` response like the following:
  ```bash
  {
    "labels": {},
    "id": "0429aa6b-d789-4c73-bbb1-73a228c69477",
    "name": "Pizza Ordering",
    "description": "API product for pizza ordering",
    "portal_ids": [],
    "created_at": "2023-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
    "updated_at": "2023-01-01T00:00:00.000Z"
  }
  ```
  Save the `id` value from the output. This is your `api-product-id` and will be used in the next step.

> 1. Using the`api-product-id` UUID of the newly created API product, create a `v1` version for the `Pizza Ordering` API product and publish it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Using the`api-product-id` of the newly created API product, create a `v1` version for the `Pizza Ordering` API product and publish it:
```

```bash

> curl --request POST \
>   --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/api-products/{api-product-id}/product-versions \
>   --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>' \
>   --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
>   --header 'accept: application/json' \
>   --data '{
>   "id": "GATEWAY_SERVICE_ID",
>   "name": "v1",
>   "publish_status": "published"
>   }'

Author: ```suggestion
curl --request POST \
  --url https://us.api.konghq.com/v2/api-products/{apiProductId}/product-versions \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --header 'accept: application/json' \
  --data '{
  "name":"v1",
  "publish_status":"published",
  "gateway_service":{
    "runtime_group_id":"RUNTIME_GROUP_ID",
    "id":"GATEWAY_SERVICE_ID"
     }
  }'
```

    "updated_at": "2023-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
    "gateway_service": {
      "id": "0f5a6eaa-1267-4259-b226-fd2520926ee2",
      "runtime_group_id": "5b32f5e1-6c0e-448d-bd94-14c770c4ffbd",
      "control_plane_id": "5b32f5e1-6c0e-448d-bd94-14c770c4ffbd"
    }
  }
  ```
1. You need to enable app registration if you want the developer in the Authorized Delivery Partners group to be able to consume your APIs by registering apps. Currently, the only way to enable app registration is by using the {{site.konnect_short_name}} UI. You can use an authentication method of your choice in the [enable or disable application registration](/konnect/dev-portal/applications/enable-app-reg/) documentation.

You now have a published API product for your Pizza Ordering API in your Dev Portal.

So far, you've used the following endpoints:

* [Create a new service](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/3c38bff8-3b7b-4323-8e2e-690d35ef97e0/16adcd15-493a-49b2-ad53-8c73891e29bf#/Services/create-service)
* [Create API product](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/d420333f-01b0-464e-a87a-97acc92c2026/941af975-8cfa-40f7-afea-e82d248489a0#/API%20Products/create-api-product)

> * [Create API product version specification](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/d420333f-01b0-464e-a87a-97acc92c2026/941af975-8cfa-40f7-afea-e82d248489a0#/API%20Product%20Version%20Specification/create-api-product-version-spec)

Author: ```suggestion
* [Update an individual API product](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/d420333f-01b0-464e-a87a-97acc92c2026/941af975-8cfa-40f7-afea-e82d248489a0#/API%20Products/update-api-product)
* [Create API product version specification](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/d420333f-01b0-464e-a87a-97acc92c2026/941af975-8cfa-40f7-afea-e82d248489a0#/API%20Product%20Version%20Specification/create-api-product-version-spec)
```

1. Click the **v1** version and then click **Link** to add a service.
1. Select a runtime from the **Select Runtime Group** dropdown menu, select `pizza_ordering` from the **Gateway Service** dropdown menu, and then click **Save**.
1. Click the **Edit** icon next to the status of your product version and select **Published** from the **Edit version status** dialog and then click **Save**.
1. You need to enable app registration if you want the developer in the Authorized Delivery Partners group to be able to consume your APIs by registering apps. You can use an authentication method of your choice in the [enable or disable application registration](/konnect/dev-portal/applications/enable-app-reg/) documentation.

You now have a published API product for your Pizza Ordering API in your Dev Portal.

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab API %} 
{:.note}
The {{site.konnect_short_name}} API uses [Personal Access Token (PAT)](/konnect/api/#authentication) authentication. You can obtain your PAT from the [personal access token page](https://cloud.konghq.com/global/account/tokens). The PAT must be passed in the `Authorization` header of all requests.

1. Create the `pizza_ordering` service:

> ```bash

Author: @Guaris For when you review this, I feel like some of the formatting in the preview page is still weird even though everything looks correct and is correctly formatted in the markdown. I also tested all of the examples from the preview page, so they all work, the format is just...odd.

Reviewer 2: i pushed an example of this. You have to indent the specific parts for it to work correctly.

curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/api-products \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --header 'accept: application/json' \
  --data '{
      "name": "Pizza Ordering",
      "description": "API product for pizza ordering"
  }'
```
  You should get a `201` response like the following:
  ```bash
  {
    "labels": {},
    "id": "0429aa6b-d789-4c73-bbb1-73a228c69477",
    "name": "Pizza Ordering",
    "description": "API product for pizza ordering",
    "portal_ids": [],
    "created_at": "2023-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
    "updated_at": "2023-01-01T00:00:00.000Z"
  }
  ```
  Save the `id` value from the output. This is your `api-product-id` and will be used in another step.
1. Using the`api-product-id` of the newly created API product, publish the `Pizza Ordering` API product:
```bash
curl --request PATCH \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/api-products/{apiProductId} \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --header 'accept: application/json' \
  --data '{
  "portal_ids":[
    "DEV_PORTAL_ID"
  ]
}'
```

>   The `DEV_PORTAL_ID` can be found in the {{site.konnect_short_name}} UI in the **Dev Portal** section. <br><br>

Reviewer 2: If this link works we should add it

https://cloud.konghq.com/us/portal/published-products

>   The `DEV_PORTAL_ID` can be found in the {{site.konnect_short_name}} UI in the **Dev Portal** section. <br><br>

Author: ```suggestion
  The `DEV_PORTAL_ID` can be found in the {{site.konnect_short_name}} UI in the [**Dev Portal** section](https://cloud.konghq.com/us/portal/published-products). <br><br>
```

```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/{portal-id}/teams/{team-id}/assigned-roles \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --header 'accept: application/json' \
  --data '{
  "role_name": "API Viewer",
  "entity_id": "GATEWAY_SERVICE_ID",
  "entity_type_name": "Services",
  "entity_region": "us"
  }'
```
  The `portal-id` can be found in the {{site.konnect_short_name}} UI in the **Dev Portal** section. <br><br>
  You should get a `201` response like the following:
  ```bash
  {
    "id": "091268a3-1e96-40c9-86c2-c7cbe795dfdb",
    "role_name": "API Viewer",
    "entity_id": "0f5a6eac-1967-4269-b226-fd2520926ee2",
    "entity_type_name": "Services",
    "entity_region": "us"
  }
  ```
1. Add a test developer to the `Authorized Delivery Partners` team:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/{portalId}/teams/{teamId}/developers \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \

>   --header 'accept: */*' \

Reviewer 2: Why was this header introduced? Is it needed?

>       --header 'accept: */*' \

Author: ```suggestion
```

      --data '{"id":"DEVELOPER-ID"}'
```
  If you don't remember the IDs for your test developers, you can sent a [GET request to list developers](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/2dad627f-7269-40db-ab14-01264379cec7/0ecb66fc-0049-414a-a1f9-f29e8a02c696#/Developers/list-portal-developers).<br><br>
  You should get a `201` response like the following:
  ```bash
  Created
  ```
1. Add a test developer to the `Prospective Partners` team:
```bash
    curl --request POST \
      --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/v2/portals/{portalId}/teams/{teamId}/developers \
      --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>' \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \

>       --header 'accept: */*' \

Author: ```suggestion
```

  --data '{"id":"DEVELOPER-ID"}'
```
  If you don't remember the IDs for your test developers, you can sent a [GET request to list developers](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/2dad627f-7269-40db-ab14-01264379cec7/0ecb66fc-0049-414a-a1f9-f29e8a02c696#/Developers/list-portal-developers).<br><br>
  You should get a `201` response like the following:
  ```bash
  Created
  ```
<!-- 1. App registration step, I don't see any APIs that allow us to do this-->

You now have added your test developer accounts to two teams with different access permissions for your Dev Portal. These developers won't be able to access anything in Dev Portal yet, though, because we need to enable Portal RBAC next.

So far, you've used the following endpoints:
* [Create team](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/2dad627f-7269-40db-ab14-01264379cec7/0ecb66fc-0049-414a-a1f9-f29e8a02c696#/Teams/create-portal-team)
* [Assign role](https://developer.konghq.com/spec/2dad627f-7269-40db-ab14-01264379cec7/0ecb66fc-0049-414a-a1f9-f29e8a02c696#/Team%20Roles/portal-teams-assign-role)

> Review the API documentation to see what other features are available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

{% navtabs %}
{% navtab Konnect UI %}
1. From the navigation menu, open {% konnect_icon dev-portal %} **Dev Portal** and click **Settings** in the sidebar.
1. To turn on Portal RBAC, click the **Portal RBAC** toggle.

Now, if you access your Dev Portal as one of the test developer accounts, you should see that the one assigned to the "Prospective Partners" team can only view the Pizza Ordering API while the one assigned to the "Authorized Delivery Partners" team can both view and consume the Pizza Ordering API.
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab API %}
To enable RBAC, you must make a `PATCH` request to the portal configuration endpoint. The following example shows how to enable RBAC in the portal. For more details on how to create your personal access token, see [Authentication](/konnect/api/#authentication). 

```bash
curl --request PATCH \
  --url https://<region>.api.konghq.com/konnect-api/api/portals/{portal-id} \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <personal-access-token>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --header 'accept: application/json' \
  --data '{"rbac_enabled": true}'
```

> The `portal-id` can be found in the {{site.konnect_short_name}} UI in the **Dev Portal** section. <br><br>

Reviewer 2: Should we link the endpoint here so the reader can look deeper into it?

Author: Talked on Slack, but we can't do this right now because the Portal RBAC enable endpoint is v0 right now.
